The FMMLx is a multi-level-modeling language. 
FMMLx models can be created and managed with the XModelerML, which allows for the execution and instantiation of FMMLx models at run time. 
The latest version of the XModelerML can be downloaded at <a href="https://www.wi-inf.uni-due.de/LE4MM/xmodelerml/#download" target="_blank">Download XModelerML</a>.

FMMLx models are saved as XML files whose main purpose has always been to support persistence of models. 
This standard FMMLx XML notation can be overwhelming. Among others, it includes layouting information and many unintelligble XML element or attribute names.
Studies have shown this standard FMMLx representation to be problematic for use by large language models (Maier & Kadziolka 2026).

For this reason, we developed a simplified FMMLx XML notation that only focuses on essential information. 
This XML notation, supplemented with a set of integrity constraints, proved better suited for experiments with large language models.
Simple FMMLx files cannot be opened by the XModelerML. 

The Simple FMMLx Validator allows to:
- upload Standard FMMLx files and transform them into Simple FMMLx files. These can then be provide to a large language model of choice.
- upload Simple FMMLx files and validate them against (1) an XML schema specification and (2) a list of non-exhaustive integrity constraints. This should support uploading Simple FMMLx files generated by an LLM and copying any errors to provide back to an LLM.
- transform Simple FMMLx back to Standard FMMLx to re-open them with the XModelerML

Be aware that retransformed Standard FMMLx files can be opened with the XModelerML, but they will be invisible due to the lack of layouting information. Once the model is added to XModelerML, you need to create a new diagram and make the model elements visible by clicking on "View->Hide/Unhide Elements".
